exampleSite/content/english/post/math-typesetting.md, before:

---
author: Hugo Authors
title: Math Typesetting
date: 2019-03-08
description: A brief guide to setup KaTeX
math: true
---

Mathematical notation in a Hugo project can be enabled by using third party JavaScript libraries.

<!--more-->

In this example we will be using [KaTeX](https://katex.org/)

- Create a partial under `/layouts/partials/math.html`
- Within this partial reference the [Auto-render Extension](https://katex.org/docs/autorender.html) or host these scripts locally.
- Include the partial in your templates like so:

```bash
{{ if or .Params.math .Site.Params.math }}
{{ partial "math.html" . }}
{{ end }}
```

- To enable KaTex globally set the parameter `math` to `true` in a project's configuration
- To enable KaTex on a per page basis include the parameter `math: true` in content files

**Note:** Use the online reference of [Supported TeX Functions](https://katex.org/docs/supported.html)

{{< math.inline >}}
{{ if or .Page.Params.math .Site.Params.math }}

<!-- KaTeX -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.11.1/dist/katex.min.css" integrity="sha384-zB1R0rpPzHqg7Kpt0Aljp8JPLqbXI3bhnPWROx27a9N0Ll6ZP/+DiW/UqRcLbRjq" crossorigin="anonymous">
<script defer src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.11.1/dist/katex.min.js" integrity="sha384-y23I5Q6l+B6vatafAwxRu/0oK/79VlbSz7Q9aiSZUvyWYIYsd+qj+o24G5ZU2zJz" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
<script defer src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.11.1/dist/contrib/auto-render.min.js" integrity="sha384-kWPLUVMOks5AQFrykwIup5lo0m3iMkkHrD0uJ4H5cjeGihAutqP0yW0J6dpFiVkI" crossorigin="anonymous" onload="renderMathInElement(document.body);"></script>
{{ end }}
{{</ math.inline >}}

### Examples

Inline math: \\(\varphi = \dfrac{1+\sqrt5}{2}= 1.6180339887…\\)

Block math:

$$
 \varphi = 1+\frac{1} {1+\frac{1} {1+\frac{1} {1+\cdots} } }
$$

Commit message:

chore:  server side rendering of math equations (#543)
Co-authored-by: Alexander Bilz <mail@alexbilz.com>

exampleSite/content/english/post/math-typesetting.md, after:

---
author: Hugo Authors
title: Math Typesetting
date: 2025-02-23
description: A brief guide to setup and use KaTeX
---

For math typesetting in a Hugo project, you can leverage hugo's internal [\(\KaTeX\)](https://katex.org/) rendering engine.
<!--more-->

If you want to use mathematical or chemical equations in your site, enable the [Goldmark passthrough extension](https://gohugo.io/render-hooks/passthrough/) and define delimiters for block and inline formulae in your config file:

**`hugo.toml`**

```toml
[markup]
  [markup.goldmark]
    [markup.goldmark.extensions]
      [markup.goldmark.extensions.passthrough]
        enable = true
        [markup.goldmark.extensions.passthrough.delimiters]
          block = [['\[', '\]'], ['$$', '$$']]
          inline = [['\(', '\)']]
```

Afterwards you can author formulae using the standard \(\LaTeX\) syntax:

### Examples

Inline math: \(\varphi = \dfrac{1+\sqrt5}{2}= 1.6180339887… \)

Block math:

$$
\tag*{(1)} \varphi = 1+\frac{1} {1+\frac{1} {1+\frac{1} {1+\cdots}}} 
$$

Chemical equations:

\[
\tag*{(2)} \ce{Zn^2+  <=>[+ 2OH-][+ 2H+]  $\underset{\text{amphoteric hydroxide}}{\ce{Zn(OH)2 v}}$  <=>[+ 2OH-][+ 2H+]  $\underset{\text{tetrahydroxozincate}}{\ce{[Zn(OH)4]^2-}}$}
\]

**Note:** Use the online reference of [Supported TeX Functions](https://katex.org/docs/supported.html)
